Age of Empires III D.E; feature: multiplayer server synchronisation system.

Before commencing primary tests, smoke tests would be conducted to validate critical functionality of the game. 
Test cases would include logging into in game account based on current logged in Steam or Microsoft Account, 
searching for online servers based on a geographical filter, joining a server, joining and participating in a game 
and in game input including manipulation of in game entities and UI.

A multiplayer server receives input from all players, updates entities’ properties 
such as velocity, state, and quantitative attributes, and broadcasts updated properties back to clients (game participants), updating entities accordingly. 
Clients predict subsequent properties of entities which are compared with the server’s values after received and updated accordingly. 

Automated testing with a Data Driven Framework would be appropriate for comparing local client’s predicted entity properties 
to both the “correct” predictions expected based on given input and the “real” properties received from the server each “tick”. 
The automated framework would allow for data to be collected for each tick. 
The data would be used to assess the correctness of predicted values for in game entities calculated locally compared to expected predictions, 
and to also assess the appropriateness of correct predictions with respect to server’s real values.

If discrepancies are noted, further Unit and Integration testing should be conducted on prediction and server logic.

This process should be considered part of performance testing. 
Additional aspects of performance testing to be peformed include stress testing of system with more than maximum expected entities, 
and with lower than expected “ping”. Soak testing should be conducted to assess multiplayer game’s behaviour over longer than expected duration. 
Recovery test cases should be used to assess behaviour of game when a player temporarily drops out of the match due to a network error. 
